Which method is part of a transformer-based masked language model?
Which method is used for cross-lingual classification?
Which dataset benchmarks cross-lingual classification?
What is another name for the Cross-lingual Question Answering Dataset?
Which method is evaluated with the Cross-lingual Question Answering Dataset?
What is another name for multilingual BERT?
Which method is used for zero-shot cross-lingual transfer?
Which task is used for masked language modeling?
Which method is used for masked language modeling?
Which method is trained with MLM?
Which method is a subclass of monolingual transformer?
Which dataset benchmarks zero-shot cross-lingual transfer?
Which dataset benchmarks zero-shot cross-lingual transfer for PAWS-X?
Which dataset benchmarks zero-shot cross-lingual transfer for MLDoc?
Which task is a subtask of language understanding?
Which methods are evaluated with XQuAD?
Which method includes adapter modules as part?
Which method is a subclass of transformer?
Which task is synonymous with MLM?
Which method is trained with masked language modeling?
Which task is synonymous with next sentence prediction?
Which method is trained with next sentence prediction?
Which method is trained with MLM?
Which method is trained with NSP?
Which method includes feed-forward layers as part?
Which method includes multi-headed attention as part?
Which method includes a feed-forward adapter module as part?
Which method includes adapter modules as part of a transformer?
Which datasets benchmark classification: XNLI, MLDoc, PAWS-X?
What is another name for JOINTMULTI?
What is another name for CLWE?
Which method is trained with MLM in BERT?
Which method is trained with NSP in BERT?
What is another name for MONOTRANS?
Which methods are trained with Wikipedia: mBERT, XLM?
Which method is compared with mBERT?
What is another name for NLI?
Which task is a subtask of NLI?
Which methods are used for natural language inference: mBERT, XLM?
Which methods are used for entailment: mBERT, XLM?
Which methods are compared with JOINTMULTI?
Which method is compared with JOINTMULTI?
Which method is compared with JOINTMULTI?
Which method is used for classification: MONOTRANS, JOINTMULTI?
Which method is used for classification: JOINTPAIR?
Which method is compared with JOINTMULTI: MONOTRANS?
Which method is compared with JOINTPAIR: MONOTRANS?
Which dataset is another name for XQuAD?
Which task is a subtask of natural language understanding: Question answering?
Which task is compared with classification: Question answering?
Which methods are evaluated with XNLI: JOINTMULTI, JOINTPAIR?
Which methods are compared with JOINTPAIR: JOINTMULTI?
Which datasets are synonyms: WiC, Word in Context; SCWS, Stanford Contextual Word Similarity?
Which method is compared with MONOTRANS: CLWE?
Which method is evaluated with MLDoc: CLWE?
Which method is evaluated with XNLI: CLWE?
Which method is evaluated with XQuAD: CLWE?
Which datasets are trained with cross-lingual word embedding: MLDoc, PAWS-X?
Which method is evaluated with XQuAD: cross-lingual word embedding?
Which datasets benchmark semantic probing: Word in Context, Stanford Contextual Word Similarity?
Which datasets are synonyms: WiC = Word in Context, SCWS = Stanford Contextual Word Similarity?
Which dataset benchmarks binary classification: WiC?
Which dataset benchmarks semantic similarity: SCWS?